:book: upgrade migration guide for v3 (#1916)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/migration/v2vsv3.md

This document covers all breaking changes when migrating from v2 to v3.

The details of all changes (breaking or otherwise) can be found in
[controller-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime/releases),
[controller-tools](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-tools/releases)
and [kubebuilder](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/releases)
release notes.

## Common changes

> v3 projects use go modules and at least Go 1.15; Dep is no longer supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
v3 projects use Go modules and request Go 1.15 or newer. Dep is no longer supported for dependency management.
```

Author: We cannot ensure newer such as 1.16. we can 1.15+. I will update that.

> V3 project uses go modules and the go version 1.15 wheredep is no longer supported.

Reviewer 2: nit: this sounds slight better as:

```suggestion
v3 projects use go modules and at least Go 1.15; Dep is no longer supported.
```

## Kubebuilder

> - A plugin design was introduced to the project. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc]

Reviewer 2: nit: this block (all three bullet points) have a *very* passive voice.  I'd encourage rephrasing a bit, like

```suggestion
- Preliminary support for plugins was added. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc]
```

> - The GO supported version was upgraded from 1.13+ to 1.15+

Reviewer 2: ditto here, like:

```suggestion
- The minimum Go version is now 1.15 (previously it was 1.13)
```

> - Preliminary support for plugins was added. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Preliminary support for plugins was added. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc].
```

> - New PROJECT file layout which stores the data used to do the scaffolds with the purpose to support the new features and allow future the CLI provide helpers to it users in the future. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `PROJECT` file now has a new layout.  It stores more information about what resources are in use, to better enable plugins to make useful decisions when scaffolding.
  
  Furthermore, the PROJECT file itself is now versioned: the `version` field corresponds to the version of the PROJECT file itself, while the `layout` field indicates the scaffolding & primary plugin version in use.
```

> ## New plugin go/v3

Reviewer 2: we should give a brief rundown of plugins vs project version above so this section makes sense.

Also, maybe change the title around a bit, like

```suggestion
## Notable changes in the go/v3 plugin
```

or the following (more in line with the slightly casual voice we take in the KB docs):

```suggestion
## TL;DR of the New `go/v3` Plugin

***More details on this can be found at [insert link here], but for the highlights, check below***
```

> <aside class="note warning">

Reviewer 2: is this really a warning?

> <h1>Note</h1>

Reviewer 2: Please give this an actual title

> From now on, new projects built with the tool will be using by default the go plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v3+` which has the support for the new features and APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Projects scaffolded with KubeBuilder v3 will use the `go.kubebuilder.io/v3` plugin by default.
```

</aside>

> - Support for `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` to replace `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` which was deprecated in Kubernetes version `1.16`.

Reviewer 2: Could group these under a list item to make this a bit easier to read, like:

```suggestion
- Scaffolded/Generated API version changes
  * Use `apiextensions/v1` for generated CRDs (`apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes 1.16)
  * Use `admissionregstration...` for generated webhooks (...)
  * ...
- Code changes
  * [manager flags]
  * [healthz]
  * [componentconfig]
 - Misc
   * Support for CT v0.4.1 & CR v0.8.0
   * Required envtest binaries are automatically downloaded
```

I think we should probably have links to more explanation for most of these as well.

> - Upgrade of the version `gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy` from `0.5.0` to `0.8.0` to address security concerns. The details of all changes can be found in [kube-rbac-proxy](https://github.com/brancz/kube-rbac-proxy/releases),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgrade kube-rbac-proxy, an optional component to secure the Prometheus metrics, from `0.5.0` to `0.8.0` to address security concerns. The details of all changes can be found in [kube-rbac-proxy](https://github.com/brancz/kube-rbac-proxy/releases).
```

Author: I would not like to add `an optional component to secure the Prometheus metrics,` because it is scaffold by default and it does not allow any request. I mean, it is not to secure the Prometheus metrics and it was added in the project before the metrics.

> Projects scaffolded with KubeBuilder v3 will use the `go.kubebuilder.io/v3` plugin by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects scaffolded with Kubebuilder v3 will use the `go.kubebuilder.io/v3` plugin by default.
```

</aside>

- Scaffolded/Generated API version changes:
  * Use `apiextensions/v1` for generated CRDs (`apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes 1.16)

>   * Use `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` for generated webhooks (`admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1 was deprecated in Kubernetes 1.16)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Use `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` for generated webhooks (`admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes 1.16)
```

>   * Use `cert-manager.io/v1` for the certificate manager when webhooks are used (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated and do not support `apiextensions/v1` `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs]( https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Use `cert-manager.io/v1` for the certificate manager when webhooks are used (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in Cert-Manager 0.14. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs]( https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/))
```

- Liveness and Readiness probes are now generate by default using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping] 

- New option to create the projects using ComponentConfig was introduced. For more info see its [enhancement proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-cluster-lifecycle/wgs) and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]

- Required binaries are now download in the project directory.

- Supports the latest releases version of `controller-runtime` and `controller-tools` 

> ## Migration Guide v2 to V3

Reviewer 2: I'd take these 3 sections and word them a bit more like "Do you want to..."

e.g.

```markdown
## Migrating to KubeBuilder v3...

### ...while staying on the go/v2 plugin

### ...and moving to the `go/v3` plugin
```

The use case for that last heading (migrating just the plugin) isn't quite clear to me

Author: I agree. I think that the ideal initial had a list of plugins migrations. 
But IMO make sense we know only cover the first scenarios and then, and we working on with the future needs in the future.

>   * The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` now are named `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with k8s Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` now are named `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with core Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893].
```

   * Support for [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases) `v3.8.7` (for `go/v2` it is `v3.5.4` and previously it was `v3.1.0`)
   * Required envtest binaries are automatically downloaded
   * The minimum Go version is now 1.15 (previously it was 1.13)
   

> ## Migrating to KubeBuilder v3 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrating to Kubebuilder v3 
```

- [Migration Guide v2 to V3][migration-guide-v2-to-v3] **(Recommended)**
              
### By updating the files manually

So you want to use the latest version of KubeBuilder CLI without changing your scaffolding then, check the following guide which will describe the manually steps required for you to upgrade only your PROJECT version and starts to use the plugins versions. 

This way is more complex and susceptible to errors and cannot be assured. Also, by following these steps you will NOT get the improvements and bug fixes in the files generated. 

You will check that you can still using the previous layout by using the `go/v2` plugin which will not upgrade the controller-runtime and controller-tools to the latest version which will make you dealing with its breaking changes. By checking this guide you know also how to manually change the files to use the `go/v3` plugin as well which is the latest layout and will requires the latest supported versions of controller-runtime and controller-tools.

> - [Migrating to KubeBuilder v3 by updating the files manually][manually-upgrade]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrating to Kubebuilder v3 by updating the files manually][manually-upgrade]
```

</aside>

- Support for `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` to replace `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` which was deprecated in Kubernetes version `1.16`.

- Support for `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` to replace `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` which was deprecated in Kubernetes version `1.16`.

- Support for `cert-manager.io/v1` to replace `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`. Check [CertManager v1.0 docs]( https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/) for breaking changes.

- The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` were renamed for `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with k8s Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893] 

- Liveness and Readiness probes are now generate by default using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping] 

- New option to create the projects using ComponentConfig was introduced. For more info see its [enhancement proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-cluster-lifecycle/wgs) and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]

- Required binaries are now download in the project directory.

> - Supports the latest releases version of `controller-runtime` and `controller-tools` 

Author: It is updated now but we still need to bump controller-runtime 0.8.0

This document covers all breaking changes when migrating from v2 to v3.

The details of all changes (breaking or otherwise) can be found in
[controller-runtime][controller-runtime],
[controller-tools][controller-tools]

> and [kb-releases] release notes.

Reviewer 3: need the actual link here?

## Common changes

v3 projects use Go modules and request Go 1.15+. Dep is no longer supported for dependency management.

## Kubebuilder

- Preliminary support for plugins was added. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc].

- The `PROJECT` file now has a new layout.  It stores more information about what resources are in use, to better enable plugins to make useful decisions when scaffolding.
    
    Furthermore, the PROJECT file itself is now versioned: the `version` field corresponds to the version of the PROJECT file itself, while the `layout` field indicates the scaffolding & primary plugin version in use. 
    

> - Upgrade of the version `gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy`, which is an optional component enabled by default to secure the request made against the manager, from `0.5.0` to `0.8.0` to address security concerns. The details of all changes can be found in [kube-rbac-proxy][kube-rbac-proxy].

Reviewer 3: i dont understand this line. Is it instructing the reader to MAKE this change or telling the reader that this change was made for them or telling the reader that this is some version that was changed in the background but they don't have to directly worry about?

Author: I got your point here. re-phased

  
- Code changes:
  * The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` now are named `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with core Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893] 
  * Liveness and Readiness probes are now added by default using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping].
  * A new option to create the projects using ComponentConfig is introduced. For more info see its [enhancement proposal][enhancement proposal] and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]
  * Manager manifests now use `SecurityContext` to address security concerns. More info: [#1637][issue-1637] 
- Misc:
  * Support for [controller-tools][controller-tools] `v0.4.1` (for `go/v2` it is `v0.3.0` and previously it was `v0.2.5`) 
  * Support for [controller-runtime][controller-runtime] `v0.7.0` (for `go/v2` it is `v0.6.4` and previously it was `v0.5.0`)
  * Support for [kustomize][kustomize] `v3.8.7` (for `go/v2` it is `v3.5.4` and previously it was `v3.1.0`)
  * Required Envtest binaries are automatically downloaded
  * The minimum Go version is now `1.15` (previously it was `1.13).

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Project customizations</h1>

> Note that after you use the CLI to create your projects and generate the manifests, you can customise it as please you. Furthermore, would be recommended to not deviate from the layout proposed unless you know what you are doing. 

Reviewer 3: "Furthermore, it is recommended"

> See that if you switch the places of what is scaffolded by default, it might get yourself in a more challenging position in the future to keep your project maintainable. And then, you might be no longer able to follow up a straightforward process to solve tech-debts and upgrade your projects.

Reviewer 3: these two lines seem really messy. Maybe `Deviating too much from the default project layout may cause issues with further use of the SDK to upgrade or manage your project. While these options may still be possible, it might now be a simple or straightforward process. Therefore, it is recommended you only do this if you really know what you're doing. For further information on the project layout, see the doc "[What's in a basic project?][basic-project-doc]".`

Reviewer 4: Why do we even mention changing layout at all?

Author: It is very important because we are asking for users re-create their project and they have a unique chance to fix their customizations on top of it in order to keep their project maintainable and upgradable easily by the tool features and helpers. 

In the future, we want to provide a command/tooling to do that as well. Also, see that I clarify indeed this motivation in the header of the manual guide.  

"Usually you only will try to do it manually if you customized your project and deviated too much from the proposed scaffold then, before continue, to ensure that you understand the note about project customizations in the [differences between Kubebuilder v2 and v3][migration-v2vsv3]. Note that you might need to spend more effort to do this process manually than organize your project customizations to follow up the proposed layout and keep your project maintainable and upgradable with less effort in the future. "

Reviewer 4: How about this:
> After using the CLI to create your project, you are free to customise how you see fit. Bear in mind, that it is not recommended to deviate from the proposed layout unless you know what you are doing.
>
>For example, you should refrain from moving the scaffolded files, doing so will make it difficult in upgrading your project in the future. You may also lose the ability to use some of the CLI features and helpers. For further information on the project layout, see the doc "[What's in a basic project?][basic-project-doc]

Author: done. tks for all folks

- A plugin design was introduced to the project. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc]
- The GO supported version was upgraded from 1.13+ to 1.15+
- Support for `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` to replace `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` which was deprecated in Kubernetes version `1.16`.
- Support for `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` to replace `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` which was deprecated in Kubernetes version `1.16`.
- Support for `cert-manager.io/v1` to replace `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`. Check [CertManager v1.0 docs]( https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/) for breaking changes.

> - The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` was renamed for `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with k8s Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893] 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The manager flags `--metrics-addr` and `enable-leader-election` were renamed for `--metrics-bind-address` and `--leader-elect` to be more aligned with k8s Kubernetes Components. More info: [#1839][issue-1893] 
```

Author: solved

- Liveness and Readiness probes are now generate by default using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping] 
- New option to create the projects using ComponentConfig was introduced. For more info see its [enhancement proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-cluster-lifecycle/wgs) and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]
- Improvements in the scaffolds to address security concerns

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Note</h1>

> From now on, the new projects build with the tool will be using by default the go plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v3+` which has the support for the new features and APIs. However, it has breaking changes as well.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
From now on, new projects built with the tool will be using by default the go plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v3+` which has the support for the new features and APIs. However, it has breaking changes as well.
```

> In this way, users still able to continue using the legacy layout without breaking changes and get its bug fixes via the plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` by only upgrading their PROJECT

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In this way, users will still be able to continue using the legacy layout without breaking changes and get its bug fixes via the plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` by only upgrading their PROJECT
```

> In this way, users will still be able to continue using the legacy layout without breaking changes and get its bug fixes via the plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` by only upgrading their PROJECT

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This way, users will still be able to continue using the legacy layout without breaking changes and get its bug fixes via the plugin `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` by only upgrading their PROJECT
```

version.  
</aside>

## Migration Guide v2 to V3

> The following guide will cover the steps in the most straightforward way to allow you upgrade your project to get fully to get all latest changes and improvements.   

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following guide will cover the steps in the most straightforward way to allow you to upgrade your project to get all latest changes and improvements.   
```

- [Migration Guide v2 to V3][migration-guide-v2-to-v3]
              
## Upgrade ONLY the project version

The following guide will describe the steps required for

> you upgrade only your PROJECT version. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
you to upgrade only your PROJECT version. 
```

> It is recommended for who would like to still using `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` and get its bug fixes but avoid breaking changes and for who is looking for to follow up the [Migrate Plugin Version v2 to v3][plugin-v3] and instead of re-create the project from scratch and only apply the required changes. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It is recommended if you would like to keep using `go.kubebuilder.io/v2` and get its bug fixes but avoid breaking changes and if you are looking to follow up the [Migrate Plugin Version v2 to v3][plugin-v3] instead of re-creating the project from scratch and only applying the required changes. 
```
